# 类型转换

​		The process of converting a value from one type to another type is called **type conversion**.

​		类型转换实际上是转换位序列的语义含义。

## 隐式转换

​		When the compiler does type conversion for us, we call this **implicit type conversion**.

​		Unsafe implicit conversions will typically either generate a compiler warning, or (in the case of brace initialization) an error.

 		Brace initialization will ensure we don’t try to initialize a variable with a initializer that will lose value when it is implicitly type converted:

## 显式转换

​		**Explicit type conversion** allow us (the programmer) to explicitly tell the compiler to convert a value from one type to another type, and that we take full responsibility for the result of that conversion (meaning that if the conversion results in the loss of value, it’s our fault).

### C风格转换

### static_cast

​		`static_cast<new_type>(expression)`

​		static_cast takes the value from an expression as input, and returns that value converted into the type specified by *new_type* (e.g. int, bool, char, double).

```c++
#include <iostream>

void print(int x)
{
	std::cout << x;
}

int main()
{
	print( static_cast<int>(5.5) ); // explicitly convert double value 5.5 to an int

	return 0;
}
```

​		When we pass in a variable, that variable is evaluated to produce its value, and that value is then converted to the new type. The variable itself is *not* affected by casting its value to a new type.

​		Old variable still holds the same value even after we’ve cast its value。

​		The static_cast operator will produce undefined behavior if the value being converted doesn’t fit in range of the new type.

### dynamic_cast

### const_cast

### reinterpret_cast



## 自定义转换



​                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
