# 命名空间

A **namespace** is a region that allows you to declare names inside of it for the purpose of disambiguation. 

---

命名空间提供一个对名字的约束范围，声明在命名空间中的具名实体，不与其他命名空间或作用域中的同名符号冲突。

- 命名空间内的名字都是唯一的，否则产生名字冲突
-  the **scope resolution operator** (::)  tells the compiler that the identifier specified by the right-hand operand should be looked for in the scope of the left-hand operand.
-  no scope resolution is provided, the compiler will 
  - first try to find a matching declaration in that same namespace.
  - If no matching identifier is found, check each containing namespace in sequence to see if a match is found,
  - the global namespace being checked last.

>   Namespaces are often used to group related identifiers in a large project to help ensure they don’t inadvertently collide with other identifiers.
>
>   命名空间在大项目中能够有效避免名字冲突。
>
>   When you write a library or code that you want to distribute to others, always place your code inside a namespace. 

```c++
#include <iostream>

void print() // this print lives in the global namespace
{
	std::cout << " there\n";
}

namespace foo
{
	void print() // this print lives in the foo namespace
	{
		std::cout << "Hello";
	}

	void printHelloThere()
	{
		print(); // calls print() in foo namespace
		::print(); // calls print() in global namespace
	}
}

int main()
{
	foo::printHelloThere();

	return 0;
}
```



## **Multiple namespace blocks**

同名命名空间可以在多文件、多位置重复声明，最终这些分散的同名命名空间将组装成为一个唯一的具名约束范围。

> The standard library makes extensive use of this feature, as each standard library header file contains its declarations inside a `namespace std` block contained within that header file.
>
> Note that this capability also means you could add your own functionality to the `std` namespace.

When you separate your code into multiple files, you’ll have to use a namespace in the header and source file.

```c++
#ifndef ADD_H
#define ADD_H

namespace basicMath
{
    // function add() is part of namespace basicMath
    int add(int x, int y);
}

#endif
```

```c++
#include "add.h"

namespace basicMath
{
    // define the function add()
    int add(int x, int y)
    {
        return x + y;
    }
}
```



## **Nested namespaces**

```c++
namespace foo
{
    namespace goo // goo is a namespace inside the foo namespace
    {
        int add(int x, int y)
        {
            return x + y;
        }
    }
}

int main()
{
    std::cout << foo::goo::add(1, 2) << '\n';
    return 0;
}
```

Since C++17:

```c++
namespace foo::goo // goo is a namespace inside the foo namespace (C++17 style)
{
  int add(int x, int y)
  {
    return x + y;
  }
}

int main()
{
    std::cout << foo::goo::add(1, 2) << '\n';
    return 0;
}
```

In general, you should avoid deeply nested namespaces.

## namespace aliases

 C++ allows you to create **namespace aliases**, which allow us to temporarily shorten a long sequence of namespaces into something shorter:

```c++
namespace active = foo::goo; // active now refers to foo::goo

std::cout << active::add(1, 2) << '\n'; // This is really foo::goo::add()
```

 If you ever want to move the functionality within a namespace to a different namespace, you can just update alias  to reflect the new namespace, rather than having to find/replace every instance of old namespace.

```c++
namespace foo::goo
{
  // int add(intx, inty);
}

namespace v2
{
  // move to here
    int add(int x, int y)
    {
        return x + y;
    }
}

int main()
{
    namespace active = v2; // active now refers to v2

    std::cout << active::add(1, 2) << '\n'; // We don't have to change this
}
```



## unnamed namespace 无名命名空间

also called an **anonymous namespace**（匿名命名空间），s a namespace that is defined without a name。

- All content declared in an `unnamed namespace` is treated as if it is part of the parent namespace.

  匿名命名空间中所有的声明都被视为其外部命名空间的一部分

  > if the unnamed namespace no outer namespace, the parent namespace is global namespace.

- all identifiers inside an `unnamed namespace` are treated as if they had `internal linkage` 

  匿名命名空间中的标识符被视为具有内部链接性

  > means that the content of an `unnamed namespace` can’t be seen outside of the file in which the `unnamed namespace` is defined.
  >
  > this is effectively the same as defining all functions in the unnamed namespace as static functions.

  

```c++
#include <iostream>

namespace // unnamed namespace 
{
  void doSomething() // can only be accessed in this file 
  {
    	std::cout << "v1\n";
	}
}

int main()
{
	doSomething();// we can call doSomething() without a namespace prefix
}
```

> the function itself is accessible from the parent namespace (which in this case is the `global namespace`), which is why we can call `doSomething` from `main` without any qualifiers.

this program is identical to the one above.

```c++
#include <iostream>

static void soSomething() // can only be accessed in this file
{
	std::cout <<"v1\n";
}

int main()
{
	doSomething(); // we can call doSomething() without a namespace prefix.
	return 0;
}
```

Unnamed namespace are typically used when you have a lot of content that you want to ensure stays local to a given file, as it’s easier to cluster such content in an unnamed namespace than individually mark all declarations as static.

`Unnamed namespaces` will also keep `user-defined types` (something we’ll discuss in a later lesson) local to the file, something for which there is no alternative equivalent mechanism to do.



## inline namespace 内联命名空间

An **inline namespace** is a namespace that is typically used to version content.

-  anything declared inside an `inline namespace` is considered part of the parent namespace. 
- `inline namespaces` don’t give everything `internal linkage`.

```c++
#include <iostream>

namespace v1 // declare a normal namespace named v1
{
    void doSomething()
    {
        std::cout << "v1\n";
    }
}

inline namespace v2 // declare an inline namespace named v2
{
    void doSomething()
    {
        std::cout << "v2\n";
    }
}

int main()
{
    v1::doSomething(); // calls the v1 version of doSomething()
    v2::doSomething(); // calls the v2 version of doSomething()

    doSomething(); // calls the inline version of doSomething() (which is v2)

    return 0;
}
```

This preserves the function of existing programs while allowing newer programs to take advantage of newer/better variations.

> 更新了默认版本的功能，同时提供了显式使用旧版本的途径。
>
> Users who still want the older version of `doSomething` can explicitly call `v1::doSomething()` to access the old behavior.



## using namespace

### using指令

Another way to access identifiers inside a namespace is to use a *using directive* statement. 

```c++
using namespace std;
```

A **using directive** tells the compiler to check a specified namespace when trying to resolve an identifier that has no namespace prefix.

However, used in this way, this is a bad practice, and highly discouraged..They violate the reason why namespaces were added in the first place.





## 全局名字空间 （顶层命名空间）

In C++, any name that is not defined inside a class, function, or a namespace is considered to be part of an implicitly defined namespace called the **global namespace** (sometimes also called **the global scope**).

Only declarations and definition statements can appear in the global namespace.This also means that other types of statements (such as expression statements) cannot be placed in the global namespace (initializers for global variables being an exception).

The scope resolution operator can also be used in front of an identifier without providing a namespace name.In such a case, the identifier is looked for in the global namespace.

```c++
int main()
{
	::printf("hello world");
}
```



## 标准库命名空间 std

命名空间可以帮助我们避免不经意的名字定义冲突，以及使用库中相同名字导致的冲突、标准库中相同名字导致的冲突。标准库定义的所有名字都在命名空间std中。
​		通过命名空间使用标准库有一个副作用，当使用标准库中的一个名字时，必须显式说明我们想使用来自命名空间std中的名字。

例如，需要西写出``std::cout``，通过使用作用域作用符（``::``）来指出我们想使用定义在命名空间``std``中的名字``cout``.



## 自定义名字空间

 Namespaces that you create for your own declarations are called **user-defined namespaces**. 

Namespace identifiers are typically non-capitalized.

```c++
namespace foo // define a namespace named foo
{
  // This doSomething() belongs to namespace foo
  int doSomething(int x, int y)
  {
    return x + y;
	}
}

namespace goo // define a namespace named goo
{
  // This doSomething() belongs to namespace goo
  int doSomething(int x, int y)
  {
    return x - y;
  }
}
```









